
# Peppol ViDA Pilot Testing

This repository provides invoices as test data packages for the Peppol ViDA Pilot Testing phase.  
It is intended to be used by the Peppol ViDA Pilot participants for testing and validation within the Peppol ViDA Pilot environment.


## Key Features
- **Invoices in Multiple Formats**: The repository contains invoices in multiple formats:
  - XML (PEPPOL BIS Billing 3.0) as the leading data source
  - PDF as a human-readable format for easy review.
- **Invoices in Multiple combinations of jurisdictions**
  - The repository contains invoices in multiple combinations of jurisdictions, indicated in each filename
    using the country code of the seller's and receiver's tax jurisdiction, separated by a `-` (minus) sign, e.g. `NL-SK`.
  - The focus is to cover participating tax jurisdictions in cross-border (and also some domestic) scenarios
- **Description**: Each invoice test case comes with
  - detailed description of the intended test scenario including the specific aspects under test, and
  - corresponding sample results (non-normative)
- **Sample results**
   - Tax Data Document: buy-side (=C3), `[TODO]` sell-side (=C2) (see [Peppol ViDA TDD Specification](https://test-docs.peppol.eu/vida/Vida-tdd/))
   - `[TODO]` MLS as generated by C3 and both C5s (see [Peppol MLS v1.0.0 Specification](https://docs.peppol.eu/edelivery/specs/mls/v1.0.0/mls/))
   - `[TODO]` SBDH-wrapped files as generated by C2 / C3 and both C5s to demonstrate message UUID handling  
     See [Peppol ViDA Solution Architecture](https://openpeppol.atlassian.net/wiki/x/AYCDMQE)
     and [Peppol Business Message Envelope v2.0.1](https://docs.peppol.eu/edelivery/envelope/Peppol-EDN-Business-Message-Envelope-2.0.1-2023-08-17.pdf)
- **Supporting files**
   - Validation reports of initial invoice and sample TDD
   - Secondary XML formats: EN16931 CII and EN16931 UBL
- **Upload of test results**: offers a method to upload test results for sharing
  with other pilot participants.
- **Contribute test data packages**: Each contributing service provider is invited to upload own test data in the `/participants` directory.


## Structure
- **One directory for each test scenario**: Contains the test data package for a specific test scenario.
- **Naming convention**: The test directory names correspond to the code defined in the Peppol ViDA Pilot Methodology and Testing document available in the [Peppol ViDA Pilot Wiki](https://openpeppol.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/VP)
  - Invoice files follow the naming pattern: `NW-HP-001.FI-AT.PeppolBIS.xml`, where
    - `NW-HP-001` is the Test Scenario Identifier
    - `FI-AT` are the sender's and recipient's tax jursdictions (respectively)
    - `PeppolBIS.xml` denotes the syntax used in this file
  - Derived files use the form
    - `NW-HP-001.FI-AT.[other format].xml` for alternative invoice XML formats
    - `NW-HP-001.FI-AT.PeppolBIS.[result file].xml` for sample results like `TDD-C3` from the source invoice indicated
    - `NW-HP-001.FI-AT.PeppolBIS.[supporting file].[html|xml|html]` for visualizations, validation reports etc.
- **Participants and contributed test data packages**:
  - Each contributing service provider adds its own contact information and a "SP test data package home" directory under `/participants`
  - Contributions are encouraged to use the same or slightly adapted file naming convention

## Usage
To use this repository for Peppol ViDA Pilot Testing process, follow these general steps.

### Use provided test data packages to execute test scenarios

Note that **test files need to be customized** to be used from your testing environment.

1. **Clone the Repository**: `[TODO] define user access (public=anonymous download)`
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/OpenPeppol/vida-pilot-testing.git
   ```
2. **Access Test Files**: Navigate to the `/[test scenario id]` directory and find the invoices in various formats and jurisdiction combinations.

3. **Integrate with Your Project**: Use these test files to integrate into your systems for testing and validation.
    - Adapt the invoice files to match your test execution.
    - Project-provided invoices use participant identifiers from the **Peppol Playground Access Points**:
      - Sending Endpoint ID: Replace placeholder `001109` with the **actual C2 endpoint identifier**
      - Receiving Endpoint ID: Replace placeholder `001110` with the desired **actual C3 endpoint identifier**
    - Test run identifier: Insert an appropriate `test-run-id` as an identifier for each test run
      - Choose a unique value (at least between C2-C3)
      - Insert e.g. into the invoice number (`BT-3`) which is also used to calculate the Invoice UUID.
      - Then, on a technical level, the Invoice UUID (field `TDT-017` in the TDD) can be used as a correlation.

    *Note: please do not commit/push such integrated files to the generic portions of this repository.*  
    *To avoid accidental commits, e.g. modify the files in a branch other than the main branch.*


> ### Contribute test results and test data packages
>
> *TODO: update with more current instructions once available*
>
>4. **Setup participant directory**: Create a directory for you as a pilot participant in the `/participants` directory and add yourself to `PARTICIPANTS.md`overview list.  
Commit and push this directory to this repository.
> 
>4. **Testing Results**: After running tests, share (and receive) full results from the other participants.  
    To add your results, use folders like `/participants/[SPID-SPName]/results/[other-SPID-SPName]/[test scenario id]` directory:   
    - As a sending service provider (C2), add the TDD as generated and any MLS as received.  
    - As a receiving service provider (C3), add the invoice as received, the corresponding MLS, the TDD as generated as well any MLS as received.  
    - As a receiving Tax Administration service provider (C5), add the TDD as received and the corresponding MLS generated.  
    Push the commit using `[TODO] define user access (public=github named committer)`
>4. **Test data package**: To contribute test data packages, follow the steps as outlined in the `PARTICIPANTS.md` file.

## Contact
For enquiries please contact [vidapilot@peppol.eu](vidapilot@peppol.eu).
